# Basic Simplex Example

This is an example project to get started with Simplex. The project assumes that the framework has already been successfully installed via [`simplexup`](../../simplexup/README.md).

## Overview

The repository structure is the following:

```md
root
├── simf — Simplicity smart contracts source directory
├── src — The project's Rust code (witness and transaction builders)
│   └── artifacts — Simplicity artifacts generated by Simplex (gitignored)
├── tests — Simplex integration tests directory
├── Cargo.toml — The project's Rust configuration
└── Simplex.toml — The project's Simplex configuration
```

### Build

In order to see Simplex in action, first run the build command to generate Simplicity artifacts:

```bash
simplex build
```

You will see that Simplex has generated a new `artifacts` directory in the `src` directory. Think of these artifacts as "rust typization" helpers for individual simplicity smart contracts in the project.

Please note that this new module gets declared in the `lib.rs` file.

### Test

Once the artifacts are generated, let's run Simplex integration test `example_test.rs`:

```bash
simplex test run --tests "example_test" --nocapture
```

You will see the test passing.

Under the hood, Simplex spins up a local Electrs + Elements regtest, establishes the connection, prefunds the signer specified in the `simplex.toml`, and runs the test marked via macros `#[simplex::test]`. 

You are free to experiment with the other simplicity contracts provided in the example.

### Regtest

If you wish to keep the blockchain's state between the integration tests, you will need to spin un a local regest separately:

```bash
simplex regtest
```

This command sets up the standalone nodes that can be connected to via simplex configuration.

Update the `simplex.toml` file with the necessary URLs and credentials, then run the test again. You will see that the state gets preserved.

## Disclaimer

GLHF!
